# Memory Game

## Table of Content

- How to play
- How to run the game
- How the game works
- Features
- Dependecies
- Testing/Debuging
- Conclusion

### How to play
This game takes 16 cards and shuffles it of which there are 8 twins cards, with a total of 8 different signs, opening cards having two matching sign open scores you, but every time you open two cards moves are counted.
Match the cards swiftly with 8 moves to win top score.

### How to run the Game
First make sure all files are in place.
Open the games root folder and run the index.html file that should start the game.

### How the game works
In simple terms, the app.js contains codes that generates html DOM objects(these are the card elements, which each coonsists of a `<li>` as parent and `<i>` as child elements)
which has event listener{`cardClick()`} and style applied to them.

After the cards are created they are then shuffled by a `shuffle()`{from app.js} function and placed into the web page inside an un-order list { `<ul class="deck" id="deck"> </ul>`},
These attributes are given to each card for testing, styling and differentiation purposes {`<li id, class, title, onclick> <i class ></i></li>`}
all these are generated by code so checking the source code by file one would not see them.

	
Each time a card is clicked the function cardClick(){from app.js} is called and this function runs different tests.

Starting with if the card clicked is the first card or if the card has been clicked before and is awaiting the next click, if it pass the test the class changes from `class="card"` to `class="card open show"`
then if another/the second card is clicked, after testing the card it then adds it to an array of open cards {`var openCards_id` } now the `cardClick()` function then stores the clicked card info
in a temporal variable called temp it then starts a setInterval(check, 1000) function for a second, after which the the check() function is called making use of the temp var created by the `cardClick()` function
it tests the cards in the `openCards_id` array var if their id's initials match{ sample if id_A(5a) is equal id_B(5b) thats if 5 = 5, not if 5a = 5b },
now if this test passes the both cards will have the event listener removed and style changed to `class="card match"` and also the cards id is added to the `matchedCards` array var,
else if the test does not pass the open cards are reset and the open state of the cards are reset(from `class="card open show"` to `class="card"`).

Now inside the `check()` other functions are used for other testings like after a card is clicked it calls the `regularCheck()` function
this function does things like check if all cards are matched also calls the `moved()` function which increment the moves var{how many times cards has been opened}
and at the end of the test the `clean()` function is called which clears the interval created by the `cardClick()`, clears the temp and the opened card array of any opened card.

When all cards are matched the `won()` function is called which shows the hidden modal elements which is the score screen, now this won() stops the timer and gets your star rating based on the number of moves made,
and then displays them{time played amount of moves made and your star rating}.
	
### Features

> The Timer

The timer counts upward, it has no influence on the game all it does is tell how much time the game has been running, since the match started.
The timer counts from 0 to 60 seconds, and from 0 to Unlimited Miniutes.

> The Star Ratings

The star rating ranges from 
- 1 	star 	===		win with 19 Moves
- 1.5 	star	===		win with 16 - 18 Moves
- 2 	star	===		win with 13 - 15 Moves
- 2.5 	star	===		win with 9 - 12 Moves
- 3 	star	===		win with 8 Moves

> The Moves Counter

The moves counter increments when two cards are opened, whether they match or not does not affect the counter.

> The Card Board

Each card has a unique id that is used to determine the twin cards, every number has a twin card ranging from 1 - 8.
The twins usually come in a {number+a , number+b}, if we are using 1 as the number its {1a, 1b}. when tested by the `cardClick()` it checks the number not the alphabet.
When all cards are matched the game is won.

### Dependecies

> https://maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/font-awesome/4.6.1/css/font-awesome.min.css

> https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Coda


> __helper.js__ file

The `helper.js` file is a personaly created javascript file used to reduce the bulkiness of the `app.js` file, so some functions are stored in the `helper.js` files, therefore the game won't work without it.

> __time_helper.js__ file

The `time_helper.js` file is also another personaly created javascript file used to handle the timer creation and display

### Testing

> Hint Card

To turn on Hints on card set the `isTitled` value to `isTitled = true` on the `app.js` file.
This highlights the cards in different colors and adds a `title` attribute to each card for testing purposes.


### Conlusion

For more info on how the codes work view these files `app.js`, `helper.js`, `time_helper.js`.